oneIPL TAB December 16th MM (#3)
SvetlanaPodogova/oneAPI-tab: tab-oneipl/minutes/2021_12_16_Minutes.rst

=============================================
oneIPL Technical Advisory Board Meeting Notes
=============================================

2021-12-16
==========

Slides:

* `oneIPL TAB #1`_

Attendees:

* Svetlana Podogova (Intel)
* Victor Getmanskiy (Intel)
* Mark Rabotnikov (Philips)
* SunkShik Baik (Samsung Medison)
* Tim van der Horst (Philips)
* Robert Schneider (Siemens Healthineers)
* Sergey Ivanov (Intel)
* Maksim Shabunin (Intel)
* Sohrab Amirghodsi (Adobe)
* Valentin Kubarev  (Intel)
* Dmitriy Budnikov  (Intel)

Agenda:

* Welcoming the oneIPL TAB participants
* Programming model of oneIPL
* Execution model of oneIPL
* Image processing pipelines
* Image data abstraction in oneIPL
* Memory model in oneIPL
* Closing words and next plans on oneIPL TAB

oneIPL specification walk-through:

* The latest version of oneIPL Spec is published on `oneIPL Spec
  page`_.

* oneAPI Image Processing Library (oneIPL) consists of several domains,
  which includes Basic functionality, Color conversion operations, Filtering,

>   Geometry related functionality and 3D operations. Current version of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Geometry related functionality and potentially can be extended to 3D operations. Current version of
```

Author: fixed

  specification covers the most important parts of domains and might be
  extended in future versions.

* The oneIPL programming language is SYCL 2020 based on C++17
  oneIPL primitives include class data abstractions and functional API

* ipl::image class specifies image data, layout and supported data types,
  which are defined at compile-time. Each algorithm in the specification

>   contains the supported data types matrix. This matrix describes generic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  contains the layout and data type support matrix. This matrix describes generic
```

Author: fixed

  data. oneIPL provides single abstraction over different memory types.
  oneIPL supports different types of memory – device, host, shared and special
  GPU texture (image) memory.

* See more details on `oneIPL Architecture page`_

oneIPL specification open discussion:

* Robert Schneider, Siemens Healthineers: Should all API be used by HW
  accelerated types?
  Victor Getmanskiy, Intel: HW accelerated types are currently very limited
  by SYCL standard images – only 4-channel images of limited data type are
  supported. We are trying to extend image support to wider amount of
  format-type combination in next SYCL standard. So the wider HW-accelerated
  support would be possible in that case.

* Robert Schneider, Siemens Healthineers: Are there query for HW feature like
  format/type?
  Victor Getmanskiy, Intel: Good question, we also see a gap here and consider
  such extension to current SYCL images in future standards. Currently we can
  query only if image/FP64/FP16 are supported or not.

* Sergey Ivanov, OpenCV, Intel: You've said, the SYCL queue carries device
  context - does all the objects need to belong to the same context?

>   Victor Getmanskiy, Intel: Yes, and each function has runtime checks that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Victor Getmanskiy, Intel: Yes, and spec recommends for each function to have a runtime checks that
```

Author: thanks, Victor. Fixed

  returns the control flow. Execution is scheduled by runtime taking into
  account the dependencies vector. For arguments having type ipl::image
  dependencies are handled automatically (example slide 12).

* Example with splitting pipeline. Two functions taking single input and
  multiple outputs can be executed in parallel, since calls are asynchronous.

* More complex pipeline with watermarking (slide 14) – user-provided kernels
  like calculating overlay and blending. Some stages can produce output
  required to host, so shared memory allocator shall be specified in this case.
  If the image is pure device all intermediate output shall have device
  allocator.

* oneIPL Image Abstraction. Image can be potentially implemented over host,
  shared, device and special texture memory. From implementation perspective
  first three can be done via USM (SYCL2020), texture can be implemented
  via sycl::image.

* Memory model. oneapi::ipl::image class is basic data abstraction for image
  data. oneIPL provides single abstraction over different memory types.
  oneIPL supports different types of memory – device, host, shared and special
  GPU texture (image) memory.

> * See more details on `oneIPL Architecture page`_

Reviewer 2: Extra symbol at the end of line

Author: Dou you mean "page`_" ?
This is not extra symbol, this is format of links in rst syntax

Reviewer 2: ok, understand

  such extension to current SYCL images in future standards. Currently we can
  query only if image/FP64/FP16 are supported or not.

* Sergey Ivanov, OpenCV, Intel: You've said, the SYCL queue carries device
  context - does all the objects need to belong to the same context?
  Victor Getmanskiy, Intel: Yes, and specification recommends for each function
  to have a runtime checks that queue and image objects belong to same context.
  Checks can be disabled in implementation to avoid performance overhead.
  sycl::queue and data pointer on slide 12 are specified in the image
  constructor so implementation can determine, if the pointer and queue are
  related to the same device.

* Tim van der Horst, Philips: If the checks for the supported data types are
  done before kernel, are they done in each call?
  Victor Getmanskiy, Intel: Implementation can be done in a way to allow to
  disable the checks to avoid performance overhead. In this case single initial
  check is required in user Application.

* Robert Schneider, Siemens Healthineers: Can the ipl::image be constructed
  over sycl::image?
  Victor Getmanskiy, Intel: Currently sycl::image 2020 is not supported by any

>   compiler, and SYCL image specification is improving, but in future based on

Reviewer 2: SYCL image specification is being improved

Author: thanks, fixed
